# energy-output-predictor

# Predicting the energy output of a Combined Cycle Power Plant Using Regression

A combined cycle power plant (CCPP) is composed of gas turbines (GT), steam turbines (ST) and heat recovery steam generators. In a CCPP, the electricity is generated by gas and steam turbines, which are combined in one cycle, and is transferred from one turbine to another. While the Vacuum is colected from and has effect on the Steam Turbine, the other three of the ambient variables effect the GT performance.

<!-- Overview -->

# Overview

In this repository, you'll find Jupyter Notebook files for different regression models and analysis. The models covered include:

- Multiple Linear Regression
- Polynomial Regression
- Support Vector Regression (SVR)
- Decision Tree Regression
- Random Forest Regression

<!-- Dataset -->

# About the Dataset

The dataset contains 9568 data points collected from a Combined Cycle Power Plant over 6 years (2006-2011), when the power plant was set to work with full load. Features consist of hourly average ambient variables Temperature (T), Ambient Pressure (AP), Relative Humidity (RH) and Exhaust Vacuum (V) to predict the net hourly electrical energy output (EP) of the plant.
<a href="https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/294/combined+cycle+power+plant">Source</a>

Features consist of hourly average ambient variables

- Temperature (T) in the range 1.81°C and 37.11°C,
- Ambient Pressure (AP) in the range 992.89-1033.30 milibar,
- Relative Humidity (RH) in the range 25.56% to 100.16%
- Exhaust Vacuum (V) in teh range 25.36-81.56 cm Hg
- Net hourly electrical energy output (EP) 420.26-495.76 MW
  The averages are taken from various sensors located around the plant that record the ambient variables every second. The variables are given without normalization.

# Dependencies

Make sure you have the following libraries installed before running the notebooks:

- NumPy
- Pandas
- Matplotlib
- Seaborn
- Scikit-learn
  You can install these libraries using `pip`:

```
pip install numpy pandas matplotlib seaborn scikit-learn
```

# Result

We have used all the above mentioned regression model to predict the energy output. And to compare the results calculated the R squared value of each regression model

## Regression Models Comparison

| Model                    | R squared Value      |
|--------------------------|----------------------|
| Multiple Regression      | 0.9325315554761303   |
| Polynomial Regression    | 0.9458193081365331   |
| Support Vector Regression| 0.9480784049986258   |
| Decision Tree Regression | 0.922905874177941    |
| Random Forest Regression | 0.9615908334363876   |

# Conclusion
Amongst all the regression models the random forest model gives the best prediction